Alakazam has the second highest special
stat of any Pokemon in Generation 1 only
behind Mewtwo
Machamp on the other hand has the second
highest attack stat behind only
Dragonite but what if we gave these two
Pokemon the completely wrong set of
moves how terrible would they be if we
ran in Alakazam with only physical
attacking moves and Machamp with only
special moves well today we're gonna
find out now we attempted this type of
comparison once before with these
special moves only right on versus the
physical moves only Chansey but that one
turned out to be quite a mismatch number
one because Chansey didn't have any good
moves to hit ghosts and number two
because ride-on's type coverage and much
higher specials that compared to
chansey's deck just meant that it could
do a lot more damage and get through
opponents much more easily but today
we're going to make this a much more
Level Playing Field the Machamp will be
held back by the fact that it doesn't
get a lot of special moves in fact the
only way to make a full special moveset
for this Pokemon is to use Gen 2 TMs in
order to give it the elemental punches
and then you can add fireblast the only
special move that it can learn by a TM
in gen 1. and while it has a fairly
middling 65 base special attack it's
going to be held back by the fact that
it only has 55 base speed meaning it
won't be getting a lot of critical hits
and it won't be able to outspeed some of
its biggest threats as it goes through
the game
Alakazam on the other hand is a clear
upgrade over the Chansey that we used in
the last race while 50 base attack isn't
Amazing by any means it's far more
serviceable than the five base attack
that we had in the last one plus
Alakazam has a really high speed stat
and speed determines critical hits in
gen 1. on top of that we have a move
that can actually hit ghosts for super
effective damage because all of the Gen
1 ghosts are also poison types so dig is
a perfect move for this move set we can
also add in the moves body slam and
Hyper Beam for damage and maybe
submission could be good against some
normal types maybe against some ice
types we'll just see how it goes so we
have our starting move set and we're
getting our starting Pokemon
so starting out in Professor Oak's lab
we get our starting Pokemon and they
already have the full moveset that I
mentioned in the intro now typically you
could just faint here and then trade the
use of Pokemon to a different cartridge
in order to get the moves I'm just doing
it right here for the sake of Simplicity
but I'm gonna go ahead and give them
names and I'm gonna name my Machamp
Savage in honor of Macho Man Randy
Savage my personal favorite wrestler of
all time and on the other side I'm gonna
name this Alakazam prison break because
I can imagine it digging with spoons
trying to escape any way it possibly can
from the terrible trainer that gave it
these moves now this run is being done
in Pokemon Red and Blue which means we
have to choose which rival to go up
against when we use the ultimate Pokemon
randomizer in the case of Machamp I
decided to go up against the Venusaur
team I did this so that the champion
would not have an exeggutor at the end
of the game because exeggutor will only
use hypnosis over and over again against
champ and that level of luck at the end
of the game could skew our results so
Machamp goes into the Rival one fight
with ice punch and I just easily to hit
the Bulbasaur but now it's time to move
on to our Alakazam Alakazam is up
against Charmander which of course we
can use a super effective dig normally
to knock it out in the first battle only
I only have body slam but it's still a
three hit KO the reason I decided to go
up against the Charmander line in this
one for Alakazam specifically was
because then we will have to deal with
both the exeggutor which will use
hypnosis in this case it will just use
Stomp and barrage but there's also the
fact that the champion will then have a
Charizard at the end of the game and
Charizard has access to slash which
could easily one shot an Alakazam we've
only got 45 base defense and 55 base HP
after all now we can see at this point
that Machamp is just slightly ahead it's
probably just due to inputs and bumping
into walls things like that there's not
really any difference in the early game
but even here in this early section
we're starting to see a couple of small
advantages starting to form particularly
in the case of machamp's moveset it gets
access to super effective moves against
most types of opponents meaning that it
can easily get through the bug catcher
at the end of radiant forest with just a
couple hits while Alakazam is still
taking a little bit of time to get
through and it means it's gonna get to
the Brock fight first so let's see how
that ice punch goes
here we've got the Geodude oh we freeze
it
he has to use a full heal and then he
just uh yeah good job Brock
[Music]
he's just like oh you know all full heal
and then I'll defense curl oh and now we
froze his Onyx to hit kale yes he uses
full heals so the freeze doesn't
actually make any difference there but
it's just kind of hilarious it makes
this a guaranteed win
so yeah
so here we're gonna dig first now he
defends curls which is bad
um
but we are doing decent damage here okay
we level up
uh we outspeed
the Onyx here
okay
he's just using Screech over and over
again
but he knocks us out okay here I'm just
gonna keep the XP from this let's just
see here
[Music]
here let's dig
dig we can get crit remember like we
have a very high critical hit chance we
take no damage from Geodude this time
and if we just start critting here I
think we're fine
oh he wants us because we got the crit
while he was using bide so here oops dig
but yeah we want we want crits here
okay we get through
[Music]
okay and we have in fact one okay so we
get to level 13 there no problem
uh lost a little bit of time we're
definitely behind Machamp who just came
in here in minimum battles
so in spite of the fact that both are
Alakazam and armachamp had super
effective moves against Brock the
difference between physical and special
moves in this fight is pretty huge
Brock's Pokemon have really high
physical defense which means even with a
super effective dig or submission it
takes multiple hits to knock them out
whereas with a move like ice punch
adding in the status and the ability to
do super effective damage against their
much lower special stats it was as
simple as the two hit or maybe a three
hit range to knock both of his Pokemon
out
so Machamp has opened up a pretty
reasonable lead in this section of the
game and it's also helped by the fact
that it can take out most of these
opponents in one or two hits and it
doesn't have to dig underground in order
to do so
there's not really anything notable in
Pokemon Red and Blue in the mount Moon
section so we're gonna move straight on
to rival 2 where Machamp is gonna test
out its greater move coverage to see if
it can maintain this lead here rival 2
so here first things first I'm going to
ice punch here
we're getting sand attacked but that is
a two-hit KO here I think we just
Thunder Punch here Thunder Punch is kind
of the least useful move in this fight
so that's why in a lot of spots Thunder
Punch I found myself just using it in
the last run is just kind of like oh I
don't have anything better
sort of situation
um neutral Effectiveness and whatnot
here I think we fire blast oh it's not
quite a one-hitter but Fire Punch does
end it there we go super saijin derp
cannot stand up to the power so in the
live commentary I mentioned the last run
you see I did a test run with special
moves only Machamp in Pokemon yellow to
see how it would go in that version and
of course I ran into a wall at Koga kind
of as I expected because he's basically
a second psychic type gym leader in that
version here in Pokemon Red and Blue we
shouldn't run into that much trouble but
the most interesting takeaway was that I
was able to go on minimum battles with
this move set all the way until I
reached koga's gym it was only after
that that I had to start adding optional
battles so machamp's probably gonna do
pretty well for quite a while and in the
meantime let's catch up with Alakazam
who is also going to take on Rival 2.
this actually works out though here body
slam body slam
Hyper Beam does finish the job okay uh
here we can just body slam nice I'm
gonna go dig here since it's a stronger
move but we get knocked out yeah so
this is not an easy fight by any means
for us
um we always have to remember that one
Hyper Beam is slightly weaker than two
body slams this might be the range there
it is yes here we can just body slam
there here let's go submission now that
we have better HP and on the Charmander
obviously we're just going dig easy win
easy easy win cool
so with rival 2 going down there really
hasn't been much more of a difference
between these two Pokemon they're still
pretty close together but Champs got a
slight lead and I'm just gonna keep them
on the same routing I think the best
strategy is just to get all the
experience North on the way to Bill's
house then come back down and try to
fight Misty in her gym that being said I
think Machamp will still have an easier
time in this section given that it has
access to Thunder Punch which should
make the Misty fight pretty darn easy
but let's see if it actually turns out
that way
[Music]
come on
here's Thunder Punch
and we paralyze it so it's a two-hit KO
there a Thunder Punch here we get the
critical hit bubble beam doesn't do
enough and we easily easily destroy
Misty that was that was a cakewalk so
Machamp makes very short work of Misty
and it's almost all the way down to the
SSN before Alakazam catches up so can
Alakazam get this on the first attempt
first I'm going body slam to try to get
paralysis once I've got the paralysis I
think we just hyper beamed there and win
but here let's body slam nice fully
paralyzed
let's give her another couple of body
slams here
um
[Music]
oops I didn't mean to go submission
there but we do win okay so that was not
too bad honestly
so fortunately Alakazam did beat Misty
on the first attempt which keeps this
from being a breakaway at this point but
Machamp did just beat one optional
trainer on the SSN to get an extra rare
candy that could be important later for
now it's gonna take on Rival 3 and this
is the first Showdown against an enemy
cadabra let's see if this goes well or
maybe Alakazam gets a chance to catch up
well burned
okay um first off on his uh big pigeon
we're just gonna ice punch it to death
we're going to fire blast on the
Raticate easy win there we're going to
ice punch here
he goes teleport
teleport oh and there we get the freeze
finally okay so we knocked that one out
and then ice punch he growls and we win
oh that was stupid even burned we just
completely destroyed rival three so it
turns out that machine
kind of a Savage in this one completely
destroying rival 3 it can move on to
Lieutenant surge just as Alakazam is
coming into town let's catch up on the
alakazam's Rival 3 fight and then go
check out Lieutenant's surge alright so
here I think we start off with a body
slam
we have no PP in Hyper Beam
okay
Raticate I will try submission but I
knock myself out in the process I think
what I want to do is I want to use my
ether into Hyper Beam so that I have
that extra power
right because then I think this is just
a body slam Hyper Beam spot
yes
submission now one shot's there cool
Hyper Beam one shots there and then we
dig on the Charmeleon and then we easily
win we don't get to learn Psy beam no
rip rip Arena no Psy Beam for this one
so while that fight was happening
Machamp lost just a little bit of time
trying to catch field move Pokemon and
that's the reason why it's just coming
into Lieutenant Serge's gym it is gonna
reach this fight first though and if it
doesn't struggle it should just keep its
lead going into the next section
[Music]
so let's get into this fight here
Lieutenant surge time I'm going to fire
blast on this one
and then oops didn't mean to use Thunder
Punch oh rip that was bad
um let's fire blast on this Pikachu cool
we level up
thundershock
the X speeds
oh man come on
we get beaten on the first attempt by
good old Sergey boy
here let's go ice punch first oh we get
the freeze now I can just do this on a
Thunder Punch thing to to knock this one
out cool ice punch here we get paralyzed
but I think this is fine
um
here I mean we're kind of in the same
boat
any Thunderbolts to knock me out with a
crit
oh we're having so much trouble here on
Lieutenant surge no the fact that he has
three Pokemon kind of makes this harder
okay we knocked that one out after a
couple of uh watch my calls okay he
misses the a Thunder Wave
that was very impressive
here I sponge kind of doing its thing
fire blast finishes it there we go
[Music]
Lieutenant surge I dig one shot cool
he X speeds digs still a one shot dig
one hit KO there we go we completely
destroy Lieutenant's surge unlike
Machamp who had a couple resets there
we might have just caught up a little
bit not sure
as we return to the side by side view we
can actually see that Alakazam has taken
the lead here and it's all things to dig
I know a lot of people don't like dig
because it takes two turns rather than
one turn like something like earthquake
but it
pretty darn good move in a normal solo
run and it is usually available in this
section of the game and if an Alakazam
is gonna be good enough to knock out all
of Lieutenant Serge's Pokemon with that
move basically any Pokemon that gets it
is gonna be pretty good right here in
this section but alakazam's not gonna
keep its lead for very long because dig
does cause it to waste a lot of time and
it doesn't really have anything better
to use against a lot of the Pokemon in
the next Rock Tunnel section now none of
the battles are really all that notable
I mean the Rock Tunnel hiker is just a
matter of either ice punching with the
Machamp or using dig to cheese the fact
that if he self-destructs while we're
underground he can't actually damage us
so with that being done both of our
Challengers can move on to Lavender but
machamp's there first and it's gonna try
rival number four just to see if this is
even possible at this point
let's just see how rival four goes here
so ice punch here makes too much sense
he has sand attacked me twice
um I do not think we win this fight at
this point Thunder Punch here does not
even one shot the Gyarados
Corrales comes out I think we just stay
with ice punch here but like look at
look at this just miss over and over
again
and now I don't see any way we beat
Kadabra
no
it's not happening guys
remember how I said before that Machamp
did minimum battles all the way up to
Koga in Pokemon yellow well there was a
big reason for that the Rival in that
version doesn't have a Kadabra on his
team until you get to rival five this is
one reason why Pokemon Red and Blue is
actually a lot harder in the early game
for Pokemon that are fighting or poison
type so while Machamp makes its way over
the Celadon City let's check out how
Alakazam does in the exact same battle
just immediately just as soon as we get
here so body slam
see if Hyper Beam has the range or not
it does cool
Hyper Beam misses here on the execute oh
and it's clearly a two-hitter with Hyper
Beam
um
okay so we do take down his eggy boy
though we can't learn recover
Gyarados body slam clearly
uh we survived
we don't have any hyper beams left
though okay let's try this again let's
try this again
um I'm just very interested to see how
this actually works out here body slam
into Hyper Beam okay
here let's body slam
why was I doing so little with Hyper
Beam
oh yeah okay so it's a three-hitter with
body slam
so here body slam body slam gets
paralyzed we survive okay let's go Hyper
Beam there okay and he still has
Charmeleon so we dig he uses rage and we
win
oh that was stupid so it is possible to
beat rival four there which that fight
was like an absolute wall for Machamp
so Alakazam succeeds where Machamp
failed but fortunately Machamp can just
go fight Erica at this point with fire
blast I think this is gonna be pretty
easy but let's find out
[Music]
okay so here she is in all her glory I'm
going ice punch here a Razor Leaf
we got wrecked there
oh the victory bell with the Razor Leaf
kind of a Savage here
okay let's see how much damage we do
with fire blast here if we can even move
oh God
[Music]
okay we get poisoned which is just
terrible
we freeze this one though okay
and now
yeah we're getting wrecked because uh
yeah
okay I think we need some freezes here
if we're gonna get through Erica
[Music]
oh God oh God
foreign
guys I think we have found the point
where Pokemon Red and Blue is actually
harder than Pokemon Yellow
[Music]
with both Erica and rival four being a
wall of course I could just go fight the
Rocket game corner but I don't think I'm
Gonna Get Enough levels there so I
decided at this point to go ahead and
start grinding extra battles with
Machamp and it's kind of interesting
that in Pokemon yellow the Rival 4
battle has only unevolved Pokemon and
Erica's team is only mid-stage
Evolutions even though they've had their
levels buffed and that means that
Machamp doesn't struggle as much in that
version with being outsped
Pokemon Red and Blue on the other hand
it seems like these teams are much
faster and they pack a much bigger punch
meaning that Machamp is just gonna be
knocked out
so while a lot of people like to
generalize that Pokemon Yellow is harder
than Pokemon Red and Blue it really does
depend on your typing and where you are
in the game so guys like gym leader Matt
who have been saying this for a very
long time are absolutely correct
and given that Sabrina is going to have
Smart AI in this version and she leads
off with a Kadabra this is going to be a
much tougher run to get through for the
Machamp than it was in Pokemon Yellow
that being said I think we can still get
it done without too much level grinding
so I'm just going to take the extra
battles that are available right here in
the meantime Alakazam is just crushing
it through the middle game and it's
about to make its way to Giovanni let's
see how that fight goes
so first things first dig
it's not gonna be a one-hitter it is a
two-hitter here
dig here
K is a two hit KO on that one
submission
and we get Comet punched down
so submission doesn't do enough damage
against that uh Kangaskhan and we also
can't okay there we got the Miss from
Comet punch so that worked out but yeah
we can't paralyze it with body slam
either because it's normal type so yeah
we just have to kinda
kind of take that so our prison breaking
Alakazam barely scraped by Giovanni but
at the same time Machamp was getting to
the Giovanni fight as well let's see how
much of a difference special moves make
in this battle let's just fight this
where I think we just go ice punch one
shot ice punch should be another one
shot we're going fire blast here on the
Kangaskhan and we missed are you kidding
me uh here we're going ice punch on
Kangaskhan and we get the freeze so nice
there we go no problem we win we win
so both Savage and prison break beat
Giovanni at about the same time and
they're both going to move on to Erica's
gym in this case Alakazam is still a
little bit ahead because it has beaten
rival four and all of the channelers
inside of the Pokemon Tower but Machamp
did beat the other trainers inside of
Erica's gym already so it's gonna take
on Erica first let's find out if all
that level grinding was enough
[Music]
so yeah let's see Erika here
fire blast oh we're still too slow to
out speed the victory bell
we've got 50 speed oh it's it's a speed
tie what is this
oh we're getting wrecked
I'm resetting right there we are in a
speed tie with this Victory Bell
[Music]
let's just see can we actually get the
range to out speed here one time
fire blast finishes that one off ice
punch
okay fortunately we don't get too much
but we are poisoned here okay ice punch
there ice punch okay pedal dance fire
blast should end it as long as it
actually hits there we go
okay so here for Erica I'm going to lead
off with body slam I kind of want the
paralysis here
Hyper Beam should just finish that one
off okay we're going back to body slam
for Tangela of course
we kind of want paralysis here
okay we paralyze it
here body slam and the critical hit
there
see if dig will do anything oh man we
just don't get the range there let's try
again let's try one more time maybe we
can get a better range here
body slam sleep powder mist
fully paralyzed Hyper Beam finishes that
one off perfect body slam we get
paralysis right away this time let's see
if Hyper Beam has the range or not it
does cool body slam body slam
body slam
and now I think Hyper Beam has the range
yes perfect so we take her down on the
second attempt not too bad 33 minutes
we've got four Gym badges
this is kind of going fine
so both Pokemon now have four gym badges
Alakazam is just gonna start making its
way through the necessary parts of the
game in order to get down to fuchsia
City so it can take on Koga next but in
the case of savage I started worrying a
little bit that maybe I didn't have
enough speed down speed that Kadabra I
mean we weren't out speeding purely on
Erica's first Victory Bell so that could
still be a wall I decided to go and
fight the fighting Dojo to get some
extra experience and I figured what the
hey it's a great chance to find out if
Machamp can show Hitmonchan how it's
actually supposed to be done when you
got Elemental punches
come on fire blast
we did burn him and we knocked that one
out cool
we're up to level 38 now
and here Thunder Punch finishes the job
perfect so we get a Hitmonlee it can use
strength later
um here let's go back now let's now try
to fight against rival four if this
isn't really working then we will go and
fight some random like hikers and
whatnot because ice punch will do enough
to get through them I think so here
let's try
first things first we now out speed the
Pidgeotto so that's an easy one-hitter
Thunder Punch easy one hitter
oh did not mean to use Fire Punch there
but it still did decent damage we're
going to ice punch the whole way on this
cadabras to hit KO nice and ice punch
not quite a one-hitter we could have
just fire blasted and taken that one
down but yeah we now win that was not
too bad
so I didn't know that the speed of the
cadabra and the speed of the victory
bell are exactly the same they're both
50 base speed so it turns out that we're
able to out speed at this point that was
a pretty easy fight we can just mop up
the rest of the Pokemon Tower with
Machamp but at the same time Alakazam is
gonna take its first shot at Koga can we
dig fast enough with our spoons to
escape the physical attacks of his team
[Music]
dude this is stupid but I'll take it
here I'm gonna go dig obviously
this is like a two-hit KO with dig
though
uh we have to dig here he X attacks
but he goes minimize
poison gas Mist okay
here dig we get a smoke screen on us but
we do manage to knock that one out dig
hex attacks and he self-destructs while
we're underground so we immediately are
able to beat Koga that's the reason why
Koga is so much easier in this version
though wheezing is not fast and if
anything can dig
right this is a spot where dig is better
than earthquake like people always say
like why wouldn't you just get
earthquake why would you have dig the
reason in that specific case is because
if you're up against an opponent who
uses self-destruct you know keeping in
mind that the game has bad AI all you
need them to do is to self-destruct
while you're underground so against the
self-destruct hiker against Koga in
Pokemon Red and Blue
dig is the superior play so both
Challengers now took an attempt at rival
5. it turns out neither of these Pokemon
are getting through rival 5 is a hard
wall his team's just too tough and now
we have to decide how to route these
Pokemon in order to get through the rest
of the game in the case of Alakazam it
makes sense to go down and fight Blaine
he starts off with a weaker Growlithe in
Pokemon Red and Blue and he just doesn't
have the best AI so we could probably
get through that and get an extra gym
badge but champ on the other hand is
struggling even against the random
drowsies in hypnos that are in silphco
so I'm not sure it's gonna have great
luck trying to go down to koga's gym
just yet so I decided to grind away in
the Silph Co building and try to get as
many levels as I could
so Machamp is going to be getting
completely Savaged by the game for a
while in this section I think it's gonna
need a lot more levels before it can get
through either rival 5 or through koga's
gym so in the meantime let's see how
Alakazam does against Blaine is he
actually as easy as I think he's gonna
be or could this be a tough battle
[Music]
see if Prison Break can do this now
so here dig is not enough to one hit KO
even on the Growlithe okay
now keep in mind we could get Critical
Hits and things like that
uh here I think body slam just finishes
that one off here let's body slam first
to paralyze we get a critical hit on us
that was bad bad
uh dig
we get fire spin okay so first reset
there that was kind of bad luck to get
that critical hit
okay dig should just finish that one off
[Music]
dig here critical hit nice I mean if dig
crits I think we just one shot him with
everything right
or we run shot all of his Pokemon so
okay
okay we get a roar then we get a fire
blast okay
so here's where I'm thinking that it's
time to start blackout grinding
so blackout grinding is whenever I just
repeatedly fight the same trainer and
every time I lose I just black out and
go back to the Pokemon Center but I keep
all of the experience I've gotten to
that point the reason you would blackout
grind rather than just go and fight a
bunch of extra trainers on the roots
near here is because it's pretty clear
if we just get a couple of critical hits
we probably win this fight and since
Alexander has a really high critical hit
chance that's not such a pipe dream to
get it to go
so it's faster to Simply repeatedly
fight Blaine here than to go fight other
trainers but this is giving time from a
champ to start to catch up and as we're
grinding away Machamp is finally
fighting against Koga
so he's different obviously here where
he's leading off with coughing
he uses sludge to poison me with the
first Pokemon
[Music]
we burn
this mock
okay he disables fire blast but that's
okay because we were already out of PPE
anyway
um we knocked that one out
and we freeze the wheezing
Get Wrecked get absolutely wrecked after
all the time that I spent trying to
freeze him in the last fight
um in Pokemon yellow that's that's
actually amazing
so Machamp progresses while Alakazam
continues to struggle in the blame fight
it is gaining some extra levels here so
hopefully we'll get through soon but
it's really an open question how many
attempts this is actually going to take
just trying to get the paralysis so that
we have a better chance of getting
through
okay
your dig right here is fine cool body
slam body slam
dig here nice
body slam gives us a tail whip so that
is a badge boost another badge boost
uh here I'm going all in
on the digs he Embers and there we go we
win the fact that I had two badge boosts
made me feel like I should just go all
in on dig since I'm doing quite a bit
more damage in that spot so there we go
we have successfully beaten Blaine
I decided this was a good time to go
back and try Ravel 5 with both of our
Challengers but can they get through now
let's see if Hyper Beam has the range or
not it does cool
okay
we do manage to knock that one out but
we are poisoned and under the effects of
uh Leaf seed so we get beaten there okay
at this point I'm actually thinking it
is probably best to go and fight some
more trainers and just get more XP so
let's just do it
[Applause]
looks first here I'm going to ice punch
here Pidgeot is fast is one thing that
doesn't get talked about enough but it
is a very fast Pokemon so here we're
beating the Gyarados that's fine here I
think we'll get through the Growlithe
just fine because it's not very strong
but now Alakazam
is gonna just destroy us there because
it only knows cybeam and confusion it's
only going to use one of the two
so yeah this is not a spot that's
actually very forgiving to I'm a champ
so rival 5's team is a major wall at
this point and it doesn't bode very well
for either of these Pokemon as they go
to the end of the game the Champions
just a better version of this fight so
we're gonna have to hope and pray that
we get enough levels to actually make it
consistent at the end
and while Alakazam is technically ahead
right now Machamp has this time to just
go down and fight Blaine and maybe it
can get through that fight more easily
especially if he uses his super potions
on full health Pokemon Red and Blue
Blaine is really really trash but it
remains to be seen so let's see if he
can get through that fight faster than
Alakazam manages to get back and beat
rival 5. all right so blame time
Laney boy let's go I'm gonna ice punch
on this dog
he super potions and now he gets frozen
so it doesn't matter how many super
potions he uses he's just lost
um
okay we get a badge boost here in speed
so that's nice we're still too slow here
against Rapidash though
and it's just using fire spin over and
over again no come on okay now he growls
so now we are faster
buddy fire spins me again
oh and we leveled up here and Embers
more than enough to knock us out at that
point
um let's try round two round two Blaine
okay we once again freeze his dog
um we get stomped this time
he's using some super potions I mean
fire spin itself isn't that bad but the
fact that he has more Pokemon is kind of
bad
um growl at me oh here we freeze the
Rapidash there we go that's what I
wanted to see yes he misses take down
now he hits takedown now we're out of pp
for
our moves we do paralyze here and we do
knock him out okay so we get the badge
boost in special
so at this point both of our Challengers
are completely tied the same number of
Badges and it's just a matter of which
one beats rival five first is it gonna
be Machamp or is it gonna be Alakazam
well let's find out
I mean we're doing fine in this fight
we're getting to Charizard with
reasonable consistency I think
reasonable enough to justify you know
trying to just go for it
okay nice crit there
here let's do the Hyper Beam nice
body slam
here a Hyper Beam is definitely the play
Hyper Beam mist
dig
okay body slam here he goes rage this
time body slam he gets paralyzed and now
a Hyper Beam will finish the job okay
so finally at level 50 we did manage to
get that one to go okay so here we are
against Giovanni let's see how this goes
given that we're just the physical
attacker here dig should be fine there
perfect
submission on Kangaskhan is a two-hit KO
we're going dig on the Rhyhorn that's a
one-hitter dig here on the Nido Queen
is going to be a two-hitter
excuse me all right so we did beat
Giovanni there that was not terribly
difficult
um it's time to go take on Sabrina and
then we've only got Giovanni left
and at the time that Alakazam finished
silphco the champ was still fighting
random trainers to get extra levels to
still try to beat rival number five and
it's not just rival number five who's
kind of scary here we also are gonna
have to take on Sabrina pretty soon who
has smart AI in Pokemon Red and Blue in
Pokemon yellow she just attacks randomly
so she's actually a lot easier to get
through in that version here we're
really gonna have to get the levels and
be able to knock her Pokemon out
but that means that Alakazam is going to
get a chance to extend its lead by just
taking on the Sabrina fight and having a
typing that stops her from using her
strongest moves let's see if it actually
works out though
okay so here we go let's get to Sabrina
Gonna Save the game right here let's see
how it goes
[Music]
oh
okay so first things first I think we
just Hyper Beam here
easy one shot
um
stick with the Hyper Beam here easy one
hitter
um
see what Hyper Beam does there it's not
quite a one-hit KO this one's just gonna
leech life on me
here I'll dig to knock that one out now
Alakazam will only use recover over and
over again nice critical hit there
though
and we take Sabrina down just like that
body slam more than enough for Sabrina
at this level so this race is starting
to look like Alakazam with physical new
moves is gonna run away with it which is
kind of funny a lot of people suspected
that this was a terrible moveset for a
physical Alakazam we're not using
seismic toss for example it's completely
unnecessary digging Hyper Beam are
amazing but Machamp is finally gonna
take on Rival 5 again let's see if it
gets the job done that I think is just
logical not to use rare candies to the
league
your ice punch we do out speed now we
just don't one shot a Thunder Punch
there is enough
here we can just once again ice punch on
the dog we do get a badge boost which
allows us to outs or we're in a speed
tie
but we do win okay fire blast oh we got
him though that was so close too so
funny enough machamp's Victory against
rival 5 means that he's gonna be
fighting Giovanni number two in silco at
the same time that our physical moves
Alakazam is gonna be fighting Giovanni
in his gym so which one of these will
beat Giovanni first I think it's pretty
obvious it's going to be the Giovanni
silvco but let's find out
[Music]
okay so here first things first I'm
going to dig on this one
looks like a two hit KO nice see if
Hyper Beam just one shots it does
here we can stick with dig here not
quite a one-hitter but a two-hitter I'll
go body slam followed by dig here in
that case
oh it's not enough come on dig here okay
he goes fissure that's fine we get a
stomp oh my God we were so close to
getting through that
he just survived with a sliver that
could certainly be a range on the ride
on there let's try this again
so we're always taking down the Rhyhorn
okay
Hyper Beam always one shots there dig
puts us in a nice two-hit range there
dig
here we'll just Hyper Beam to finish
that one off
here dig
critical hit stomp does so much damage
though oh any fissures there we go we
finally win so we take down Giovanni an
hour and six minutes we are not doing
too bad we're at level what 55 right now
[Music]
then I'm gonna come back here and I'm
gonna start clearing this area out
so here let's just do a couple ice
bunches no problem here how about a fire
blast for you not quite a one hitter or
two hit KO right horn easy one hitter
there and against NATO coin we've got
the super effective ice punch so easy
easy win okay
so as expected we completely Savage
Giovanni inside of silphco that was a
joke no difficulty whatsoever whereas in
his gym he was actually kind of hard for
our physical moves only Alakazam we
couldn't do enough damage with dig and
what that means is that this gave just a
little bit of time from a champ to start
to catch up it's going to take on
Sabrina while that fight against
Giovanni for Alakazam was still going on
maybe it can beat her before that fight
finishes let's find out okay so Sabrina
time let's just see how this fight goes
here she leads off with Kadabra
which we do not out speed and we're
getting hit by side beam right away
and this one is not even a two-hit KO so
I think we have found the answer which
is that we need more XP fortunately I
saved before beating Giovanni with
machium just to see how Sabrina would go
and keep all these Silph co-trainers
available in the event that she wasn't
possible it's easy level grinding at
this point so Machamp is gonna grind
more levels who knows how long it's
gonna take and in the meantime Alakazam
is going to take on Rival 6 and maybe
even make its way to the League this is
kind of ridiculous and not what I
predicted at the start
okay so here let's let's just save so
that we have our progress saved let's
see how rival number six goes
okay
I don't think we have the range yet to
uh Hyper Beam so here dig
it's gonna be like a two-hitter here
execute we paralyze it
see if Hyper Beam will finish it it does
not
[Music]
okay we got poisons
here Hyper Beam is not enough no
okay
Hyper Beam on the enemy Alakazam also
not enough
okay Hyper Beam the next Hyper Beam does
finish it off though body slam and we
get slashed yeah this fight is not
looking good guys
um
I am not not super happy about this
situation here
I think we need more levels but we're
not using rare candies until we get to
the league same as with Machamp now
[Music]
okay Whirlwind doesn't affect us so we
get through Pidgeot on full health
that's nice
dig here we get a tail whip so that is a
badge boost
[Applause]
body slam he's fully paralyzed
there we go
body slam
Hyper Beam knocks that one out Hyper
Beam knocks that one out body slam he's
paralyzed
ghost flamethrower but a Hyper Beam
there we go we finally finished it at
level 59 so it actually took Alakazam 10
attempts to beat rival 6 and that does
not bode well for the end of the game
but we have gotten through and now we
can get ready to go to the league I am
going to go to the power plant and get
the extra rare candy things like that so
Machamp has the chance to fight Sabrina
and Giovanni and see if it can catch up
while we're in this section and fighter
and first things first we outspeed
cadabra ice punch looks like a
two-hitter with that critical hit
um here let's go fire blast okay we get
the one hitter there we get the one
hitter there
now we get sidewaved I think we need a
freeze here
cybeam we do survive he goes reflect oh
we beat Sabrina are you kidding me
I'm gonna go with some ice punches here
I think
ice sponge nice
ice punch nice ice punch is like a
two-hitter here but Nidoqueen doesn't do
anything we have speed Nidoking we get
poisoned but ice punch does the job ice
punch looks like a two-hitter on ride on
and we win easy win come on Giovanni you
were supposed to be good the so-called
greatest trainer in the world
uh we are poisoned though so he is
killing your eyeballs killing our
eyeballs
he's like don't talk trash on Giovanni
I'll burn your eyeballs out with uh
flashing lights
[Music]
here we are going to put the whole rest
of the team all the HM mules into the PC
so that we can uh now get over here to
rival number six but we may be blackout
grinding here I'm not sure
[Music]
here I'm Gonna Save the game let's go
rival number six
so here first things first I'm going to
Thunder Punch here
I was hoping to paralyze it here ice
punch on ryhorn is perfectly fine
Gyarados we can Thunder Punch nice here
Growlithe ice Bunch we freeze it there
we go now Alakazam it goes reflect ice
punch reflect again ice punch now
psychic
oh this is scary yeah see we did not win
that first fight
you know so it really just comes down to
when oh we get the freeze yeah like Sam
oh and now Venusaur fire blast not quite
a one-hitter any razor Leafs me down
oh man if he doesn't go Razor Leaf there
I win
or if we get the freeze or the critical
hit I guess I win so here ice punch we
freeze Pidgeot ice punch here no problem
Thunder Punch here no problem we're up
to level 60 now
here agility is fine
here he goes reflect we get the freeze
again
on Alakazam so we get through that one
here I go ice punch just to yeah
completely destroy Super Saiyan derp so
at an hour and 18 minutes both of our
Challengers are on their way to the
league and if either one struggles at
all this could become very very close
now before we get into the Lorelei fight
for Alakazam I just want to give a big
thank you to Super Sai Gene derp the
channel member who requested this run if
you'd like to request your own runs
check out the channel membership down
below with that let's get to Lorelei so
here let's save the game and let's try
our hand against Lorelei
thank you
maybe doing a lot of black blackout
grinding here I'm not sure
[Music]
submission does decent damage here
she's never gonna want to
um
use whatchamacall against us
um rest because we're psychic type and
she has smart AI that says Don't rest
against a psychic type
okay we get beaten there by The Cloister
we only beat the dugong that time
so unlike the last one this might be a
spot where we end up wanting to um rare
candy here on Lorelei
especially as it starts getting closer
to the time
because we're gonna have to at least try
to make this competitive here at the end
okay that's a three hitter now
nice crit there
two crits there
okay we paralyzed this one goes withdraw
we really want Critical Hits come on
come on crit crit damn you crit
[Music]
there's the critical hit I was looking
for
dig here
okay we at least got through the first
three Pokemon we really don't like
having our attack dropped so much
so Alex Sam Hits a wall on Lorelei due
to the high defense and HP of her
Pokemon and what this means is that
Machamp has now reached the league and
is able to take its first attempt at
Lorelei let's see how the special moves
go here let's let's go ahead and save
for once right here an hour and 22
minutes getting to the league
and let's see if we can beat
um Lorelei without using rare candies
[Music]
hey here Thunder Punch
this one's only gonna use rest against
us because smart AI so we easily win
that one
okay we paralyzed this one now this
Slowbro is only going to use the Amnesia
against us which is kind of trolley
because it means that we're going to uh
not be able to uh do as much damage but
here are fire blast
we'll follow with a fire punch no
problem
your Lapras Thunder Punch we get
Paralysis on it it paralyzed me though
he misses
oh we get through on the first attempt
against Lorelei ah Get Wrecked so
Machamp takes its first lead since the
middle game and now it's on to Bruno
alright so Bruno time first things first
I'm gonna go ice punch on this one
I'll go fire blast here I think oh we're
just missing all the fire blasts
here
[Music]
fire blast on Hitmonlee is not quite
strong enough to one hit
here ice punches the play there
obviously now I'm just gonna ice punch
on his Machamp
submission to decent damage Bud we take
him down okay we get to level 62 here
we're at a much lower levels than we
were in the last one
and with Alakazam continuing to struggle
against Lorelei Machamp can now make his
way to the Agatha fight now this could
be an absolute wall for this Pokemon
we're just gonna have to see if we get
luck with freezes or anything to get
through
[Music]
hi Agatha
so here there are some spots where I
think that
going for like
ice punches the play
here Haze okay
we're getting hypnosis a lot though
Dream Eater destroys us okay so here's
what I'm gonna do I'm going to let the
rest of the team get knocked out
so we're going to put all of these hm
Pokemon into the PC
we're only gonna use Savage here here
let's save the game and let's just keep
grinding against Lorelei and Bruno until
we can finally get through Agatha
so Alakazam and Machamp have both hit a
wall at this point Machamp can
consistently beat Lorelei and Bruno but
is always getting beaten by Agatha her
moveset is just way too trolley and when
she does get you asleep and starts using
Dream Eater you're dead in the case of
Alakazam on the other hand it barely
gets through the first three Pokemon on
lorelei's team and I grinded this over
and over and over again just trying to
get as much xp as I could and while I
did do a test run of my Champion Pokemon
Yellow so I have some idea of what level
it needs to get to in the case of
Alakazam this is my first attempt
completely unoptimized and I'm sitting
on my rare candies because I don't know
what kinds of challenges are coming
after this with that being said if one
of these battles starts to look kind of
close I may start slamming rare candies
in order to try to get through because
this is a race after all but you don't
want to use rare candies too early using
them quickly just means that you're
gonna have even more experience to grind
to get to higher levels But ultimately I
did decide to use the rare candies for
Alakazam in order to get through Lorelei
and the rare candies on Machamp to get
through Agatha but which one beats the
champion first first for the sake of
time I'll show you each Challenger's
final run against the league starting
with Machamp since he's technically in
the lead getting to Agatha let's see how
fast he can beat the game
um
you know it's just clear that for the
first two members we we really don't
need anything else
um we're perfectly fine here
just as we are
[Music]
we even out speed Jinx now this is
stupid uh we just need to actually hit
Thunder Punch crit
we're getting through that easily now
okay
okay here ice punch
Let's uh go for a fire punch here oh we
hit the range
get the range there oh we're getting
very close to just dominating this team
completely fissure can't affect us
obviously because we're a higher level
and we're out speed anyway
um here let's do a little test so let's
just see if I drop all the rare candies
right here how do we go
[Music]
right because we're going to get up to
level 88. with these
[Music]
so here we go I get the time
let's just see how she goes
[Music]
here fire blast
we are out speeding so that's an easy
two hitter ice punch nice ice punch and
Ice Bunch okay uh here fire blast on
Arbok cool fire blast here
she nightshades but fire blast finishes
the job so yeah level 88 we can clearly
get through that that doesn't look too
inconsistent either
let's see Elixir right here let's use a
Max potion very quickly
let's save the game let's get into this
fight now this should pretty much be a
free fight at this point because Thunder
Punch is gonna one shot there
the dragonairs won't attack us anyway so
we can just you know ice punch there
um Aerodactyl doesn't use flying type
moves in this version so ice punch will
just take that down and then we've got
four times super effective ice punch
there so
easy win
here
let's heal up
let's also Max Elixir here let's see if
we can beat the champion or not
[Music]
okay so Champion leaves off with Pidgeot
ice punch is not a one-hit KO here
okay so that's the first like bad sign
we're still outsped by Alakazam it is a
two-hit KO here ice punch on the ride on
here's Thunder Punch on the Gyarados
here ice punch ice punch ice punch so
that's fine Venusaur ice punch and ice
punch so it turns out we got a very good
range there on the Champions Alakazam
uh for it to not even attack us I'm kind
of interested now just to see right
so here let's reset very quickly because
I'm just interested in this
if we get hit by the Alakazam
what does this actually look like here
so here will ice punch still there still
a two-hit KO here
okay your ice punch he goes reflect
Psy beam does pretty huge amounts of
damage
and yeah we we got taken down pretty low
here uh we can still Thunder Punch and
guarantee a one shot there
um here ice punch
ice Bunch ice punch
so
we still get through but it's really
close we can see like if we get a worse
range there
so I'm gonna do this just a couple times
just for testing we already saw that we
won
um at about a minute or an hour 44 but
right
so we can get the range to one shot
there but we're outsped we get Psy
beamed Psy beamed
and psychic and we can actually lose
there if he doesn't use a reflect we can
actually lose there on the Alakazam that
I wanted to see that's what I wanted to
check is this perfectly consistent at
this level no no it is not we can
actually still lose against the Alakazam
here at this point so here I'm just
gonna beat him one more time just so
that we can finish
um I don't know that that's a super
likely scenario for him to go three in a
row
um
here he reflects turn one
we get the freeze so here we've we've
obviously already won this fight I think
Gyarados thunderpunch is gonna be a
one-hitter Arcanine can't really do
anything
[Music]
um
yeah
and here on the Venusaur fire blast is a
one-hit KO so yeah we can we can easily
win at this level but it's not a
guaranteed win
the Alakazam can still beat us at level
89 or level 88 at that point
um
so that's that's just incredibly
incredibly interesting to me personally
that even at level 88 Machamp this
Machamp is not completely consistent
against the champion
so officially Machamp beat the game at
an hour 44 minutes and 48 seconds we've
got a lot of work to do with this
Alakazam if we're gonna have any shot of
beating it now we have already used the
rare candies to get all the way up to
level 80 here trying to beat Lorelei we
can see that it's still not consistent
we're still possibly getting knocked out
in this fight but it does feel like it's
getting close and if we can manage to
get the luck we may be able to match
that time but we've only got about seven
and a half minutes of real time to beat
all four elite four members and the
champion if we're gonna take this one
down
we're getting close we're getting so
close
[Music]
okay so we get that one down without any
attack drop that time
okay critical hit knocked that one down
okay
[Music]
we get one growl here
two growls come on
okay there's the crit Hyper Beam here is
not quite enough to one hit
body slam finishes it off though body
slam here gets the crit submission
she super potions
super potions again oh we had it all the
way down to a little red sliver
oh man
this is so close come on so terribly
close
okay
[Music]
okay so Hyper Beam finished that one off
okay
withdrawals that's fine
Hyper Beam here is not quite a
one-hitter come on okay hyper b or body
slam
[Music]
and let's go submission there we go we
finally get through Lorelei oh God oh
God I think we have to save I think
we're just kind of all in at this point
if we're gonna have any shot whatsoever
um here I think we PP up
um
let's PP up dig because this is going to
be incredibly important I'm gonna PP up
um
yeah I think that's the best we can do
okay let's get into the Bruno fight here
obviously dig is the play here he goes
hardened that's Vine X defend that's
fine I'm just gonna try to body slam on
the hitmans
okay they're easy to take down here he X
defense there
dig dig
we'll just finish that one off body slam
here gets the crit let's try Hyper Beam
there we go okay so we beat Bruno there
let's save the game Let's
recover RPP let's full restore let's
fight Agatha let's see can we do this
here we're going dig nice
body slam here we're going dig right
here
like this is probably our easiest fight
here dig
and then dig right here for the Gengar
okay
Okay so we've made it to Lance
now obviously we need a full restore we
need all the pp that we can get
[Music]
here let's save let's get into the fight
let's just see can we get this to go
so body slam here
okay this is a three-hitter
body slam there not quite a one-hitter
but we do knock that one out we take
that one down
submission is neutrally effective here
against Aerodactyl body slam
we get the paralysis Hyper Beam does the
job okay we have made it to the champion
at an hour and 40 minutes in about 30
seconds if we can take him down quickly
we might just win this one with Alakazam
this would be stupid let's go let's go
come on
oh this is so nerve-wracking when I
already know what I need
body slam
although he mirror moves me and he goes
Hyper Beam no okay we take that one down
though Hyper Beam here one shot we're
going dig here
this is like a two hit KO we get a badge
boost there body slam here
see if Hyper Beam will finish it it does
not okay
so one reset there
oh this could come down to the wire my
God
okay
body slam critical hit okay that's
exactly what we wanted to see Hyper Beam
here one shots we're gonna go dig again
here
looks like a two hit KO we get a badge
boost there body slam body slam body
slam body slam on Gyarados goes Hyper
Beam and we get wrecked
okay we just have to reset there we have
no choice but to reset in that exact
spot
body slam Hyper Beam okay it does take
it down Hyper Beam here on Alakazam
dig
K and dig we get the range to get a
two-hitter there
we're going
body slam body slam here Hyper Beam okay
body slam here gets the critical hit
Hyper Beam come on there we go we've got
the Charizard it goes slash I'm out of
hyper beams
oh and he slashes me twice otherwise I
think we would have won there oh God
this is so close
oh no
okay body slam here
we get the critical hit Hyper Beam hits
okay
[Music]
body slam critical hit Hyper Beam okay
body slam
Hyper Beam oh it's not enough
we missed the range it's not enough
there
oh this is stupid
[Music]
okay
body slam Hyper Beam
Hyper Beam
okay dig
crit there okay
body slam body slam
Hyper Beam to finish it off
body slam
and the Hyper Beam we get the range cool
he uses rage
oh an hour 43 36 I don't know if we won
or not
an hour 43 37 oh this is tight oh this
is super tight
oh my God level 83.
wait just a second I have to look at
this
so in fact our prison breaking Alakazam
beats Savage by one minute and 11
seconds with a difference in game time
of exactly one minute this was tight as
there could ever possibly be these two
Pokemon are so incredibly close in spite
of the fact that they're both using
terrible movesets
and it really goes to show that a strong
Pokemon can get through the game even if
it's using the completely wrong moves
but it's not gonna be as good as it
normally would have been
final takeaway is this neither of these
Pokemon perform anywhere near how they
normally would perform if you just used
good moves for them in the case of an
Alakazam it can beat Pokemon Red and
Blue on minimum battles without a single
TM even if you give it 0 DBS or zero IVs
completely crushes the game
Machamp on the other hand isn't going to
be that great you're gonna have to use
some broken moves if you want to beat
the game on minimum battles but it is
possible and this Pokemon wouldn't need
to get anywhere near level 80 to beat
the game on a normal setup
so both of these Pokemon got nerfed
pretty badly but it was a heck of a lot
of fun to see how it worked out
so I hope you guys enjoyed this one I'll
see you in the next video later
[Music]
foreign